Minute paper four:
	The main topic for the lecture today was about communication. In order for communication between two entities to be possible three things need to be mutually acceptable. This is what is communicated, how is it communicated, and when is it communicated. If these three things aren’t met then there can’t be any communication between the entities. These protocols can be achieved even if the two entities are talking in a different language. The way to do this is to have another step in between. Just like you said in class, a translator can be the communication between two people. The two people that are talking to each other are speaking different languages but they are now understanding each other. With technology this is really important because if two computers are trying to talk to each other and they can’t understand then the miscommunication can brake something bigger. 
	The biggest question on my mind is, where does the encrypting of the data go in the ISO-OSI model? 

Minute paper five:
	Lecture five was a continuation of lecture four. In this lecture was about layered architecture. Each of the layers that the data goes through changes how it is read and the layering problems can add up. It is still important to go down so many layers though in order for the receiving side will be able to fully understand what is actually being sent. While sending the data from one end to the other the data will be encapsulated by headers and footers. These headers and footers are very important. They state where the data is heading and how it should get there.  
The question that I am wondering is, how complex can the layering and architecture get before the end to end communication is unreadable?

Minute paper seven:
	In this lecture we started out continuing with the physical layer. We talked about how satellites are able to transmit data around the world. The period in which they are orbiting is proportional to the radius of their obit to the 3/2. This means that the higher up the satellite the longer it takes to orbit the earth. The Geostationary satellites are the highest up and take up to 24 hours to rotate the earth. But because they are so far away from earth they have a larger line of sight than the medium or low earth satellites.  You only need to have 3 satellites to be able to send data around the world. This means that you don’t need to send as many satellites into space in order to get data sent, but the time window that you are able to send that data is going to be smaller because it takes a third of a day for one of those satellites to orbit overhead. This is why it is good that the orbiting satellites, hubs and other ground satellites can communicate with each other.
	The biggest question on my mind is, how long does these satellites last? When do they need to be replaced because they have broken down so much data can’t be sent clearly anymore? 

to  make it biggere

Minute Paper eight:
	The big thing we talked about in class was about line coding. There are many types of line coding but the ones that we talked about were NRZ &NRZI with and without Manchester, and other forms like return to zero. The reason that line coding is so important is because a clock signal needs to be recognized when the data is being received at the end of the line. If the code contains a lot of zeros or ones in a row then it is near impossible to know what the clock is or how many ones or zeros are in that series. The return to zero case can be unique because you are also able to send different levels of ones and zeros. This multileveling means that it will be nicer to send the code. By encrypting the one and zero to -2 1 0 1 2s, as an example, you can easily see when the one or zero changes. With an 8B6T the 8 bit groups that are your code is changed to the 6 multilevel code.
	The biggest question that I have is how many levels for the multileveling can you get before it gets too big.

